My name is Fatima,
and I'm a tech lead manager on
Google's Detection
and Response Team.
If there is a hacker
on the network,
our job is to find them.
Working in detection is
really like an artist
preparing for a show.
We spend all this time
developing all of
these signatures
to detect hackers,
and then one day,
it's time for the show.
You get that same nervous energy
and your question whether you're
ready for the
performance or not,
but you really don't
have a choice.
The hackers are
going to come and
you have to be ready for them.
I would say cybersecurity
is very exciting.
You never know when
the next vulnerability
is going to be released.
You never know when the next
incident is going to happen.
A great example of
an incident would be
the Log4j vulnerability
that happened in 2021.
The entire company
came together to
investigate whether or not we
were affected by
this vulnerability.
It was my team's job to
make that determination.
We ingest hundreds
of millions of lines
of logs per second.
After we have these logs,
it requires hunting and
log diving through them,
creating different signatures to
match against these logs
for signs of compromise.
We were able to say all clear,
we are not impacted by
this and we're safe.
Those are the moments.
Those are the highlights.
That's where everything
comes together.
Teamwork in an incident
response scenario, is key.
You cannot run an
incident response
without a really solid team,
a team that works
really well together,
a team that really
trust each other.
The way to maintain
clear and effective
communication
is by communicating a lot.
During an incident it's a
little bit counterintuitive,
but the people who are the
more senior engineers,
these people become
the operational leads.
They are the people who are
responsible for making sure that
the communication is not
breaking down within
their function.
So, we shift roles
from being very
technical to really focusing
on the communication,
aggregating the data,
and surfacing the data
to the right people who
need to know about it.
I definitely recommend
cybersecurity as
a career field because
really the attackers,
they're not going to let you get
bored because they
are very creative,
so we have to be creative in
the way that we go
out looking for them.
Being a person who
likes to learn,
knowing that there's
always going to be
a thing for me to learn
and become good at,
that's exciting and that
keeps me motivated.